---
layout: food
title: "KuDai Mian or Biang Biang Mian"
category: "food"
date: 2021-07-16
---
The noddles are a classic from the Shaanxi region of china.  I think I make it with a pretty inauthentic sauce/topping combination that I really like though, so adding it here.  Credit to original recipe from Abie.  So there is this concept of hot oil noodles which is a really classic dish.  Whilst it is a delicious dish, for these noodle I like to cook the aromatics in the oil for like 30 seconds which really makes the whole oil have alot of the flavour and evenly distributes it.

<h2>KuDai Mian</h2>
Ingredients (for 3 portions)
<ul>
  <li> 400g  flour -- I have used normal, bread, 00, all sorts, really all of it works, I need a much more rigorous test, so far it doesnt seem to matter too much</li>
  <li> 300g water </li>
  <li> 2 tsp salt </li>
  <li> Some greens: spinach, kale, chard</li>
  <li> 3 eggs (optional) </li>
  <li> Mushrooms: <ul>
    <li>300g (or more) mushrooms, any kind, if yoy have younger oyster, cut them in half length wise, if you have crimini, or shitake cut the caps into ~1 cm wide slices
    <li>1 tbpn Mirin  </li>
    <li>2 tbpn Rice Vinager</li>
    <li>1 tbpn Soy Sauce</li>
    <li>Salt to taste</li>
    <li>2 tbpn of butter or oil</li>
  </ul>
  <li>6 gloves of garlic crushed and then chopped</li>
  <li>XX dried chillies, crushed or chopped (same size as the garlic</li>
  <li>4-6 scallions chopped up thinly</li>
  <li>3 tspn light soy sauce</li>
  <li>1 tspn dark soy sauce (if you dont have it just use another one of light</li>
  <li>2 tspn Chiangkiang vinegar if you have it near you.  Black/double black chineese vinegar or rice vinegar if you cant find chiang kiang, you can do more vinegar if you want more vinegar</li>
  <li>note: I want to try adding sichuan pepper corn, but havent yet so ill update ehre if i like it</li>
</ul>

Steps
<ol>
  <li>mix flour, water, salt until dough forms</li>
  <li>knead for 10ish minutes or in a stand mixer with dough hook for like 5 (you may need to add more flour)</li>
  <li>wrap in plastic and set aside, either in the fridge (I havent tried this for more then 2 days, so I am not sure the upper limit here) or on the counter (for at least 2 hours)</li>
  <li>divide doug into 6-7 pieces, shape them to be roughly wallet sized, coat each piece in oil and place on a plate or a baking sheet covered with plastic wrap, let rest for another 1-3 hours</li>
  <li>Eggs:<ol>
    <li>Beat the 3 eggs in a cup</li>
    <li>in a 10in or so nonstick (bottom of a wok, teflon, carbon steel, w.e.) our some butter/oil let it heat up and then pour the egg over it</li>
    <li>wait for it to be mostly solid, flip, just sear the other side and take out, cut into parallelograms 2cmx5cm (of course the shape isnt that important, but this size/shape holds up quite well to being tossed which is nice). </li>
  </ol></li>
  <li>Mushrooms:<ol>
    <li>brown butter in a pan</li>
    <li>toss in oil, and mushroom, blast it on high heat</li>
    <li>once the mushrooms are starting to brown on the outside (I like them juicy, if you dont like them juicy, then you can cook it lower and slower and get a more meaty consistency, dealers choice).  Pour in half the vinegar, mirin.</li>
    <li>that should evaporate quick, keep tossing the pan, then deglaze with soy suace and the rest of te vinegar, add salt to taste.</li>
  </ol></li>
  <li>Mix Chiangkiang and soy sauce and set aside</li>
  <li>Get a (large) pot of salty water boiling</li>
  <li>head about 1/4-1/2 of a cup oil</li>
  <li>Time for what we call "thwapping" or the "biang biang" part: For each noodle you want to make two indents lengthwise on the wallet sized dough thing.  Then gently grab each end and slowly pull while slapping down on the counter, one pull per slap, you should be able to get around your full wingspan.  Where you made the indents should be notable weak spots on the noodle, so pull these apart into three long (4ft+) noodles.  Hang them on the back of a chair of something</li>
  <li>drop the chili and garlic into the oil (this is in parallelt, its hard to write out</li>
  <li>Once you have made all of the noodles.  One at a time, but rapidly! drop them into the boiling water.  Shoot for about a minute from the time the last one went in, if you like it more cooked go for 2, but realy not much more then that.  If you are using tough greens drop them in 10 seconds before the pasta is done</li>
  <li>right before you drain the noodles drop the scallions into the oil as well</li>
  <li>drain the pot, but the noddles in a large bowl (we are going to be tossing like salad)</li>
  <li>add greens and noodles to a bowl, drop the egg/mushrooms on on top. gently toss</li>
  <li>pour the hot oil all over</li>
  <li>pour the sauce all over toss again</li>
  <li>enjoy</li>
</ol>


