---
layout: food
title: "Hidromel"
category: "food"
date: 2022-08-01
---

<h2>Hidromel</h2>
So this may be the biggest success we have had in fermenting.  Working on a sweet collab with 
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/user/timrulz54">Tims Vlog</a>.  I had had some really good hidromel (like mead beer) when I was Toledo, 
I had not seen anything like it here in the states, (maybe I wasnt looking).  It was incredibly honey forward, and not sweat, 
I'm not sure I fully realized how honey would taste if you took out (or let a yeast eat) all of the sugars. Turns out it is pretty great!  
We start our first experiment with 3 gallons and the following three blends:
<ul>
  <li>1lb of honey : 1 gallon of water</li>
  <li>1.5 lb of honey, 1 cup of raisons : 1 gallon of water</li>
  <li>2 lb's of honey, 3 apples worth of apple peels chopped up : 1 gallon of water</li>
</ul>

After about 5 weeks, the first one was completely clear and dead, the apple skins still chugging a long.  We bottled them all and upon tasting I think 
that the apple skin was a favourite, with the raisins and the original not far behind.  Our second batch has 1.5lb, 1.75, 2.0lb os honey with raisins in the last two.  We are re-pitching the yeast, its was a kveik yeast from whitelabs.com.  Upon tasting the second batch, Tim tasted some meaty-flavour, maybe the left over dead yeast is autolysing? -- if it is really bad (we are on our third batch now (added some peach into one of them!) we will be better about cleaning out but for now it seems to just kick start fermentation.

There is also the problem that we are doing only 1 Gallon brews, so the same way it is hard to make a sauce in a small pan, it may be tricky to isolate variables with our scale.  The honey we bought for round 3 seems a lot less complicated in flavour, may be fine, but we will see
